---
title: Dais Past
date: 2016-04-08 7:45 PM
category: Dais
---

Nearly two years ago I transitioned my blog from Wordpress to my custom blogging engine [Dais](/2014/07/07/introducing-dais). It afforded me the opportunity to learn A LOT and save some money at the same time since I hosted it with Heroku's free tier. Dais worked fairly well but by no means perfectly. Occasionally the app would die and require a restart by very rarely.

About a year later Heroku started cracking down on their free tier usage, and I made the switch to [OpenShift](/2015/08/25/moving-from-heroku-to-openshift). It worked very comparably to Heroku and was an easy transition. However Dais stability plummeted after the transition. Either OpenShift is less stable or Heroku was more tolerant of my buggy programming. I suspect the latter since I had to use threads in Dais to continuously update from Dropbox so I'm sure I made mistakes. 

I've spent the last 8 months constantly checking the status of my site so I could reboot it when necessary. It's been a real pain, but I haven't had the desire to dive back into Dais and try to improve the stability. 

I've consider changing platforms a few times but have been worried about the time investment required and whether I'd lose features I've become accustomed too. The biggest feature being the ability to create posts in my iPhone with Editorial. Then I learned about [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/), [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/), and this series of Editorial workflows from [Robert Vojta](http://www.robertvojta.com/2015/05/12/editorial-workflows-for-jekyll-blogging/). 

Jekyll does everything I need and was extremely easy to work with. It took about a days worth of work to setup all the new templates, update all my markdown files with the YAML front matter from my own, and get everything deployed and running. I had to sacrifice a few fun features of Dais that were nice to haves and rarely used. But the result is a completely stable and blazing fast site because it's **static**. 

My site is now officially pointing to GitHub Pages servers and so far I could t be happier. 
